# Running the code

### Improvement Of Potential Field Algorithm For Robot Path Planning
*Note: other files are helper files for the above main scripts*

The code Initially proposed for real-time collision avoidance [Khatib 1986].To navigate, the robot applies a force proportional to the negated gradient ofthe potential field. A navigation function is an ideal potential field.

1\. Navigate to the codes folder

2\. Run the "`PotentialFields.m`" file for 1 obstacle environment and PotentialFields_Q2.m" for 2 obstacles environment.


* File \#1 `ECE8743_PotentialFields_Obstacle_1.m`This file for the simulation of one obstacles.

* File `ECE8743_PotentialFields_Obstacles_2.m`This file for the simulation of 2 obstacles.

* file: `section_5.m`this is the code for the 8 obstacles.

* file: `section_6.m`this file has the code for the local minima.

in section 7 folder there is the simulation of the improved APF

* Folder: section_7 \> file: `GoalDelta.m`This is the code for the improved APF for finding the delta of the goal.

* Folder: section_7 \> file: `ObsDelta.m`This is the code for the improved APF for finding the delta of the obstacle

*The code was edited by Meshaal Mouawad 09/13/2021  
ECE Department, Mississippi State University*

# Abstraction

this project, we improved and implemented the Artificial Potential Field
Algorithms (APF) for path planning, then the robot uses the path planning to
navigate from the starting position to the goal position with avoiding the
obstacles collision. The path planning generated by the APF is an optimal path,
shortest distance to the goal. We have investigated three scenarios to create
the path planning. Forst scenario, generating path planning with one obstacle.
The second scenario, generating path planning with two obstacles. The third
scenario, generating the path planning with two obstacles but with different
parameters of the spread of attraction, the spread of repulsive, the strength of
attraction, and the strength of repulsive, then, the optimal path planning among
those parameters founded in scenario 3. We tested two local minima and simulated
with APF algorithm then we compare the results for the better path planning. An
improvement APF has been tested and simulated for the local minima problem.

**Index Terms: Artificial potential field algorithms; local minima path
planning; navigation; Ant Colony Algorithm (ACA); optimal path planning**

# Project Objective

The objective of the project is to apply the Artificial Potential Field (APF)
algorithm for robot path planning to improve and resolve some issues such as
local minima of an autonomous mobile robot.

# Introduction

Robotics and autonomous mobile in order to move and navigate with free collision,
it requires path planning such that the robot can move from the starting point
to the goal point in a short distant with a condition of avoiding the obstacles,
no collision, which is technically called *optimal path planning.* Optimal path
planning is one of the most complex problems in robotics as it must meet the
above conditions. There have been many methods and algorithms to solve this
problem. In this project, we discussed the Artificial Potential Field (APF)
algorithm and tested for robot to find the path planning. The Artificial
Potential Field depends on the attraction force, and the repulsive force on the
robot to find the path planning and navigate. The report is organized in the
order, first we explained the Artificial Potential Field (APF) algorithms and we
and expressed the formula of *attritive force*, and *repulsive force* then we
expressed the *entire potential field.* Second section, the simulation results
which we run the functions and formulas of the APF Algorithms and simulated in
three scenarios, in scenario-1 the simulation included one obstacle; in
scenario-2, the simulation included two obstacles; in scenario-3, the simulation
included two obstacles with changing the parameters of the spread of attraction,
the spread of repulsive, the strength of attraction, and the strength of
repulsive. The purpose of this section is to generate reasonable path in which
the path is generated between obstacles (not too close to anyone obstacle). The
results of all the scenarios are recorded in this section. Third section, we
have used another map and apply APF model to find the path planning. Local
minima is the forth section, where we discussed the local minima with APF and
simulate two local minima cases and plot the corresponding figures and simulate
more cases on local minima and we show our findings in this section. We
simulated Mobile Robot Path Planning Using Ant Colony Algorithm (ACA) and
Improved Potential Field Method that proposed in [1] which was developed an
improved APF algorithm then we show the results in section. A conclusion id
drawn in the last section of this report.

# Artificial Potential Field

The Artificial Potential Field (APF) is an attractive and repulsive method
between the target, the goal, and the obstacle. The robot is attracted to the
target and repulsive from the obstacles. to the target point. Attractive field
is radial distribution about the target point and the direction of attraction
points to the target point [2]. The APF force is the sum of the attractive force
, and the repulsive force as described in Equation

* The Attractive Force

The attractive force, is the force the robot uses to navigate toward the target,
and radially distributed from the target as we described mathematically in
Equation :
